---
title: "📑 Canon Audit Ledger --- Gundam: Paint It Black / Black
  Horizon"
---

# Themes & Emotional Core

Paint It Black = central theme: grief, compassion, void.

Fred: grief hidden under humor; acts because he cares; jovial mask is
for himself.

Nerina: compassion & empathy; creed = feelings of living beings are the
only thing that makes war tolerable.

Tomas: opponents = equations; worldview = optimization & remediation;
masks are necessary; secretly obsessed with Fred, the unsolved anomaly.

# Machines

Black Horizon = chaos, grief, survival. Prototype for newtypes, pressed
into service early. Mythologized as the Black Reaper, chaotic and
feared.

Aetheris = compassion, grace. Mythologized as the Angel of Astra.

Valiant Gundam = RX-78 archetype (Dashiel's suit). His erasure proves
archetypes meaningless.

Regalia = inevitability, fully optimized execution. Mythologized as the
Silent King (only in whispers).

Horizon Aether = rebirth; grief + compassion fused. Mythologized as the
Dawn Reaper.

# Characters

## Fred

Lost wife & child. Begins as a horrified bumbler in Horizon; learns
basic competence but never an ace.

Piloting always awkward, inefficient, yet unpredictably effective.
Survives because he cares.

Wears a jovial mask he convinces himself is for others --- truth: it's
for himself.

POV: grayscale worldview; color returns only with Horizon Aether (Act
IV).

Arc: from surviving grief → realizing his mask is for himself →
crystallizes why: "I move because I care. Always."

## Nerina Vale

Empath newtype pilot of Aetheris. Creed: feelings of living beings =
only thing that makes war tolerable.

Necessity Sortie: pilots Horizon when Fred is incapacitated → shows
intended newtype grace → unsettled: "It feels scarred. Not mine."

Crisis: creed fractures when she senses nothing at Dashiel's death &
void from Tomas.

Spirals under Tomas's corrosion → culminates in \'Supernova Night\': ops
trap + phantom drag; music grammar (silence → cacophony → "Why not?" →
final silence).

Dies overwhelmed by Concordian soldiers. Tragedy: would have recovered
with time, but Tomas denied her that.

## Dashiel Mercer

Astra's golden boy, wunderkind pilot of the Valiant Gundam. Prototypical
Gundam hero mold --- textbook ace, admired by all.

Civilians see him as destined savior. Private truth: dutiful but not
revolutionary, lacks adaptability.

Acts as Astra's course correction: Horizon reassigned to him after
Nerina's sortie.

Flies alongside Fred briefly; civilians think the Reaper is learning
from the Hero.

Erased instantly by Regalia before he can pilot Horizon. Nerina feels
nothing → creed fractures. Fred's fragile hope dies. His erasure proves
archetype = meaningless against Tomas.

## Tomas Antoni / Sovereign

Public: Antoni, benevolent Concordian king. Private: the Sovereign,
masked void. True name revealed privately to Fred in Act III.

Worldview: opponents = equations; remediation = elimination (optimal
fix). Sees inefficiency as waste.

Pilot of Regalia. Funnels orbit like a crown. Royal Synapse strips only
internal noise, not external jamming.

Obsession: Fred as unsolved anomaly --- preserved intentionally.

Act II: erases Dashiel early, already solved outcome. Act III: corrodes
Nerina directly, destroys Horizon as Fred breaks.

Private reveal: \'My name is Tomas Antoni. Remember it.\' Believes
anomaly solved. Act IV: Fred survives → obsession ignites.

# Supporting Characters

Jan Doven --- Pragmatic Astra commander; prioritizes survival above all.

Karl Erdingher --- Gruff engineer; calls Horizon \'half-finished
bastard.\' Skeptical of myths.

Orlando Brech --- Political functionary; sees myths as morale tools.

Mara Holt --- Civilian voice; pressures Astra leadership, runs Mara's
Bar (jukebox-only, after-hours banter, epiphany seed).

Serik Helvane --- Concordian general; unwavering loyalty to Antoni.

Kael Bancroft --- Skeptical officer. Clipped lines, then vanishes
quietly --- his chair permanently empty.

Manon Quen --- Designer of Royal Synapse. Sharp, discreet; infers
Sovereign is human but stays silent.

# Worldbuilding

Astra = refugee fleet (flagship LaSalle). Myth-making culture via
Refugee Choir, legends of Angel & Reaper.

Concordia = outward idyll, inward dystopia. Remediation = elimination.
Antoni rules as king, Sovereign concealed.

# Mecha & Myths

Black Horizon → Black Reaper. Chaotic prototype, mistaken as death
incarnate.

Aetheris → Angel of Astra. Graceful empathy.

Valiant Gundam → Archetypal hero; erasure = perfection meaningless.

Regalia → Silent King. Inevitability, optimized execution. Never
mythologized publicly, only whispered within military.

Horizon Aether → Dawn Reaper. Rebirth; chaos + compassion harmonized.
White flame scarred black.

# Season Outline (Skeleton)

## Act I (Ep. 1--5): Accident & Mask

Fred stumbles into Horizon → horrified survival → Black Reaper myth
born.

First clash with Sovereign --- Tomas spares Fred out of curiosity.

Nerina introduced; bonds with Fred.

## Act II (Ep. 6--13): False Successor & Empath

Ep. 6: Dashiel introduced in Valiant. Fred relieved; civilians inspired.

Ep. 8: Nerina's necessity sortie in Horizon → Astra brass decide
transfer to Dashiel.

Ep. 9--10: Fred flies alongside Dashiel, civilians whisper Reaper is
learning from Hero.

Ep. 11/12: Regalia erases Dashiel instantly. Nerina feels nothing →
creed fractures.

Ep. 13: Nerina in crisis. Tomas corrodes her directly. Angel myth
suffocates her.

## Act III (Ep. 14--19): Spiral & Collapse

Nerina falters, second-guesses empathic signals. Refugees intensify
Angel myth.

Fred admits mimicry of Dashiel was false hope. Bancroft vanishes
quietly.

Ep. 16--17: Nerina corrodes under Tomas's void. Asks Fred: \'If there's
no feeling, why fight?\'

Ep. 18: Collapse. Nerina overwhelmed by Concordian soldiers --- should
never have happened.

Ep. 19: Revelation. Tomas reveals true name to Fred. Regalia destroys
Horizon. Fred ejected, broken. Tomas assumes anomaly solved.

## Act IV (Ep. 20--25): Rebirth & Reckoning

Fred survives. Horizon Aether born. Color returns to his POV.

Fred realizes his mask was always for himself. Crystallizes truth: \'I
move because I care. Always.\'

Final battle: Horizon Aether vs. Regalia. Tomas cracks as void fails
against grief + compassion.

Black Horizon --- v1.8 \[LOCKED\] Patch Inserts

# v1.7.1 --- Supernova Night (Event Restoration)

• Nerina perceives emotional resonance as music
(melody/harmony/rhythm/silence).

• Aetheris sync thresholds:

\- ≥70: trust resonance fully; ballet-like foresight.

\- 50--70: blend resonance with conscious tactics.

\- \<50: failsafe mode; drones form shield/beam array; no independent
function.

• Tomas' empathy corrosion killtrap (Phantom Drag): phantom echoes +
silence pockets → sync dragged below 50.

• Nerina chooses a last stand (sacrifice, not suicide) to shield Astra;
pushes past survival parameters.

• Fred/Nerina exchange: "Why are you doing this?" / "...Why not?" →
music grammar completes (silence → cacophony → 'why not' → final
silence).

# v1.7.2 --- Mara's Bar (Fred's Third Space)

• Fred's 3rd space; street-level meeting place of Astra
(civilians/mechanics/pilots).

• Choir is NOT present here.

• Rules: jukebox-only; Mara kicks out any live music/singing (running
gag; monetizes jukebox).

• Public hours: Fred's humor mask at its fullest. After hours: Mara lets
Fred stay; she's a sounding board with mild pity, not a fixer; preserves
Nerina as the only one who can truly pierce his mask.

# v1.7.2a --- Nerina's Visits to Mara's Bar (Post-Dashiel)

• After Dashiel's erasure, Nerina begins visiting the bar for the first
time.

• Purpose: re-ground at street level when empathy falters.

• Drinking: usually moderate/social; only occasionally too much (not
alcoholism).

• Visual contrast: Fred performs outward; Nerina retreats inward; Mara
treats both as ordinary patrons.

# v1.7.3 --- Refugee Choir Refactor (Operating Model)

• Choir = organic street culture; hybrid form: part rock-song, part rap
lyric, part griot spoken word.

• Variable ensemble: sometimes one voice, sometimes many; never static.

• Not omniscient; codifies events into myth in real time; never appears
in Mara's Bar (jukebox-only).

• Episode triggers updated (Fred first sortie, Nerina brilliance,
Dashiel erased, Supernova Night hush, Horizon Aether reveal fusion).

# v1.7.4 --- Concordia World (Shorthand & Facade)

• Call/Response:

\- Formal: "Through the Eminar --- Concord endures."

\- Daily shorthand: "Through the Eminar." (ubiquitous
greeting/sign-off).

• Tomas' "remediation" = his private optimization calculus; rarely
spoken; not civilian/military jargon.

• Civilian facade: genuinely happy, privileged "rich neighborhood"
culture with many unspoken rules; insiders see harmony, outsiders
(Astra) feel it as suffocating ritual and sterility.

• Disappearances euphemisms: "gone to serve elsewhere," "their part is
complete."

## Black Horizon --- v1.9 \[LOCKED\] Patch Inserts

### v1.8.1 --- Fred's Color Return

• Episode mapping integrated; see Visual v1.9.

### v1.8.2 --- Valiant Re-integration

• Beam saber: violet blade; Shield: black ablative plating.

### v1.8.3 --- Myth Rename

• Dawn Reaper → Dawn Sower; Choir phrasing codified
(rises/burns/returns).

### v1.8.4 --- Karl's Engineering Gag

• Chevron opener seeded myth; gag mapped across Acts I--IV.

## 🗺️ Source Map Appendix (v1.9 Integration)

### Fred's Color Return

• Fred Bible v1.9

• Visual Language v1.9

### Valiant Re-integration

• Fred Bible v1.9

• Visual Language v1.9

### Myth Rename (Dawn Sower)

• Myth & Choir Bible v1.9

### Karl's Assistant Gag

• Supporting Bible v1.9

• Visual Language v1.9

# 📑 Diff Summary --- SSOT v1.8 → v1.9 \[LOCKED\]

Baseline: v1.8 \[LOCKED\] (all v1.7.1--v1.7.4 integrated)

Roll-up: v1.8.1--v1.8.4 → v1.9 \[LOCKED\]

## ✅ Integrated Patches

### v1.8.1 --- Fred's Color Return

• Episode-precise POV color mapping (Ep. 10 → 25).

• Horizon Aether always in color from first reveal; rest of world
flickers until stabilized.

• Compassion = color, fear = collapse.

• Final palette: full color with gray scars.

### v1.8.2 --- Valiant Re-integration

• Dashiel's violet beam saber carried into Horizon Aether.

• Shield fragments repurposed into black ablative plating with
butterfly-knife reformation.

• Karl quip hinting at the retrofit.

### v1.8.3 --- Myth Rename

• Horizon Aether myth retitled: Dawn Reaper → Dawn Sower.

• Refugee Choir phrasing codified: \'rises / burns / returns.\'

• Ensures clean mythic pairing with Black Reaper.

### v1.8.4 --- Karl's Assistant Gag (Engineering Life)

• Running gag codified across Acts I--IV.

• Opening line of series = chevron exchange (\'Ditch the hazard
chevrons.\' / \'Great, let's make maintenance lethal. No.\').

• Later gags: thruster pivots, cockpit reinforcement, shield plating.

• Karl's clipped voice + irony: always calls ideas dumb, always
implements/authorizes anyway.

## 🗺️ Source Map (v1.9 Integration)

### Fred's Color Return

• Fred Bible v1.9

• Visual Language v1.9

### Valiant Re-integration

• Fred Bible v1.9

• Visual Language v1.9

### Myth Rename

• Myth & Choir Bible v1.9

### Karl's Assistant Gag

• Supporting Bible v1.9

• Visual Language v1.9

### v1.8.4 --- Engineering Life

• See also: v1.8.4 --- Karl's Assistant Gag (Engineering Life) section
for details and clipped voice.


## Black Horizon — v1.10 [LOCKED] Patch Inserts
### Roll-Up
v1.9.1: Concordia. v1.9.2: Songmakers. v1.9.3: Fred mask. v1.9.4: Nerina crossings. v1.9.5: Nerina spiral.

### Season Outline
Act I: Myths born. Act II: Necessity sortie, Dashiel erased. Act III: Tomas corrodes Nerina, Horizon erased, name reveal. Act IV: Horizon Aether, Fred’s humor authentic, final confrontation.
